#summary Documentation (not finished)
=Documentation (not finished)=

The documentation is a HUGE task...every line of code has to be analysed and put together into one big (understandable) chunk of text, so it will take a while. If anyone wants to help, just make a patch file for the svn. This is what I have so far:

==nxt.locator (incomplete)==

The locator module. The function of this module is to locate nxt brick(s). Usage is in the examples section

Objects (incomplete):
	nxt.bluesock.BlueSock object 
		The object returned by find_one_brick() when a brick is found on a Bluetooth connection.
		Methods (incomplete):
			connect()
				Try to connect to the brick.
			close()
				Close connection to brick.*
			host
				Returns the address of the brick.
	generator object find_bricks
		The object returned by find_bricks().
		Methods (incomplete):
			next()
				Find the next brick in the sequence. Returns the same thing as find_one_brick().
Methods: (incomplete)
	find_one_brick(host=None, name=None) (incomplete)
		Use to find your Lego Mindstorms NXT brick. Returns an nxt.bluesock.BlueSock object for robots connected by Bluetooth, a ???????? for robot connected by USB, and nxt.locator.BrickNotFoundError if none can be found.
	find_bricks(host=None, name=None)
		Use to find all the bricks in the area. Returns a generator object find_bricks.

Example:
import nxt.locator
sock = nxt.locator.find_one_brick()
brick = sock.connect()
print brick.host
brick.close()

==nxt.motor (incomplete)==
==nxt.sensor (incomplete)==




*Returns an error on my system (may have something to do with me running it in 2.6).